These are the best Nvidia Profile
Inspector settings which actually gave
me 40 FPS more in Fortnite. I've used
Nvidia's own statistics tool to measure
the overall render latency as well as
average frame rate and tested this on a
creative map to actually get real
results, guys. This is not a placebo
effect since we're seeing around a 5 to
7% FPS increase for just simply applying
my own list drives config, which I'm
going to guide you through exactly. And
since Fortnite now has two different
rendering APIs, you actually have to
understand the key differences between
DirectX 11 performance mode and DirectX
12 one. But don't be worried, I'm going
to guide exactly through. And just to
make sure that I can actually fully test
this out in Fortnite directly and see
how smooth this actually felt. I of
course used GearUP Booster, which helped
me to lower my ping in Fortnite or
basically any games you guys are
playing. GearUP Booster is your number
one gaming service when it comes down to
reducing your ping. With the top link in
my video description, you can by the way
try it out for absolutely free, guys,
and even pros like Zena are using it.
It's going to help you to find the best
DNS servers in your near to make sure to
get the least amount of latency in all
your favorite games. No matter if you're
playing Fortnite, CS:GO, Valorant, or
the variety of games which GearUP
actually supports. Not only does it help
you to reduce your ping, but also give
you better stability in games. So if you
sometimes have random lag [music] spikes
or you have connection issues, GearUP is
going to help you to counter that. So
therefore, try GearUP Booster for
absolutely free as mentioned with the
top link in my video description. And in
the first place now, guys, we actually
need the Nvidia Profile Inspector, which
you just simply can Google up or click
on the link in the video description
where you can find the latest GitHub
link. And from here now we can see the
latest versions where we actually now
have a pre-release version, which we
want to avoid maybe, and rather go for
2.4.0.3.1. This is the latest version
which is stable. Then you're just simply
going to scroll down a little bit and
then you can find the Nvidia Profile
Inspector zip file. Just simply click
onto it and it's going to get onto your
PC. And once you get the Nvidia Profile
Inspector, just simply double click onto
it and launch it as administrator, guys.
And this is exactly now how it should
look like. Don't be worried there, I
know there are a bunch of settings in
here which you probably don't
understand, but I'm going to explain
everything really simple. Just simply
first of all search up Fortnite in the
top search bar since you want to only
apply these settings actually for
Fortnite.
And now I'm going to cover
compatibility, sync, and refresh and all
of these here just to basically give you
the best overall ones for DirectX 11
[music] and DirectX 12. And what are the
main differences between these two
rendering APIs and how they basically
benefit. But there's one very important
difference between DirectX 11 and
DirectX 12, which I'm going [music] to
explain as well. First of all, under
compatibility, you actually want to
leave all of these here on the default
values. As you can see, they're mostly
as well for older DirectX versions, so
therefore they don't really phase you in
here. These are default settings, just
simply leave them. You might potentially
actually break something than rather
improve it. Now for sync and render,
what we have now flip indicator is just
an overlay which we can keep on
disabled. Frame rate limiter, actually
we want to turn these completely off,
guys, because we want to get the highest
FPS possible or potentially use a frame
rate limiter in Fortnite directly if you
wish so. Then G-Sync, if you're not
utilizing a G-Sync monitor, you actually
have to put these three here ones
actually on off. Application mode on
off, global features on off, and global
mode on off as well. Now for the maximum
pre-rendered frames part, this one is
the biggest difference between DirectX
11 and DirectX 12 because DirectX 11
doesn't have the Nvidia Reflex Low
Latency mode. Let me explain this real
quick. And as the name already says, it
basically determines the amount of
pre-rendered [music] frames. What does
this mean? If you're playing a game
right now, frame which you see right now
on screen is actually already outdated.
It's old. And if you use the 3D
application settings, it's going to be
around three frames being pre-rendered,
which means you actually have a lot of
delay because it's not the most
up-to-date one. If you now reduce it all
the way down to only one frame being
pre-rendered, you're of course going to
have a lot less delay because pictures
are going to arrive faster at your
monitor. The only downside with this now
being is that this here actually takes a
lot of CPU capacity. This is why many
people actually lose a ton of FPS on
weaker systems. So you might actually
get a lot less input delay on one, but
your FPS might actually tank as well. So
people also try out maybe two as an
example and see, okay, is the delay
better? It's definitely better than
three, but the performance is maybe a
lot nicer. So therefore, using two could
also be a possibility. And this is the
largest difference between DirectX 11
and DirectX 12 because you have to do it
with maximum pre-rendered frames. We
also do have the ultra low latency mode
in here, [music] and many people tell
you you should of course turn this one
on or ultra, but the thing is the ultra
low latency mode overrides maximum
pre-rendered frames. And the problem
with this is, theoretically, if you put
the ultra low latency mode on enabled
and put the state on ultra, this is as
close as possible to one FPS being
capped. The only difference is the ultra
low latency mode is dynamic, which means
it's not like pre-rendered frames where
you literally tell your system only one
frame. This is why you should actually
not use the ultra low latency mode and
turn these here actually off and rather
use maximum pre-rendered frames on
DirectX 11. For DirectX 12 on the other
hand, you just go into Fortnite, enable
the Reflex Latency mode, and it's going
to override these two settings anyways
because it's being then calculated by
the Fortnite engine. It's built into the
engine, which also makes it a lot less
CPU heavy. This is why you actually see
a lot better performance on your
hardware if you're using DirectX 12. So
therefore, on DirectX 11, just use
maximum pre-rendered frames. On DirectX
12, you can leave this on one. You copy
all these settings by the way which I'm
about to tell you and just simply put
the Reflex Low Latency mode on on or
ultra. Both work the same way. Ultra is
just a little bit more precise, which
might cause more GPU utilization and
therefore maybe a thermal throttling.
Next up, we have vertical sync, guys.
This one here actually you can use on
the free application settings. I always
turn this off in Fortnite. This doesn't
really make a difference unless you're
maybe playing on 60 or 75 Hz and you're
getting like 300 FPS. At this point,
just simply buy a high refresh rate
monitor, bro. Like, what are you doing?
But sometimes there might be issues if
you have like exponentially higher FPS
than your refresh rate, as mentioned in
60-75 Hz. And the Vulkan settings just
simply leave on auto. Next up,
anti-aliasing. This one is super
important. FXAA is a very outdated
version of anti-aliasing. What does
anti-aliasing do? It basically smooths
edges around corners to make them appear
sharper in the distance. For me
personally, this is not relevant at all
for game like Fortnite. It's so
cartoony, I just want higher FPS, so
therefore I keep it off. This is why
most of these anti-aliasing modes are by
the way completely off and disabled
because I'm not utilizing any sort of
anti-aliasing in Fortnite except gamma
correction, which is just simply
lighting, which has no visible
performance decrease, so therefore you
can completely find use this. MFAA is an
improved version of anti-aliasing, also
completely turned off. The same as well
with MSAA. You actually want to leave
these here on none or application
control because in Fortnite directly I
turn these always off. The same as well
for sharpening. Just simply copy my
complete settings here and you're going
to be completely good to go. This is
universal for any Nvidia PC out there.
Now texture filtering. This is where it
gets interesting because actually
anisotropic filtering optimization and
sample optimization are both great modes
to actually increase your FPS. The only
downside is the textures might look a
little bit more mushy because they're
getting loaded up faster. It's not as
precise and therefore textures up close
might look a little bit like mushy as
said, which for me personally I again
don't really care about it. I just want
better performance. That's why as well
the filtering mode just simply leave on
application control because we are
playing this in Fortnite main. When it
comes down to texture filtering LOD
bias, this is only the level of detail
which you can use for potato graphics,
which probably most people out here know
already in the Fortnite com. Potato
graphics are kind of fun to play around
with. I have multiple videos about this
[music] on my channel, so therefore you
can just simply Google that. The texture
filtering quality of course on high
performance, guys. You don't want to use
something like quality here. This is
actually going to decrease your FPS by a
lot. And you also don't want to use high
quality. High performance is the one you
want to use. So trilinear optimization
you can also leave on on. That way we're
already completely done with the best
Nvidia Profile Inspector settings here
for Fortnite in 2026. So therefore,
we're going to hit apply changes and
close this. And this is how I get so
much more FPS in Fortnite with literally
the same build, guys. We're running a
RTX 2060. This is nothing crazy in terms
of PC specs. If you enjoyed this video
and you want to see more content like
this, definitely make sure to check out
these two videos which are right now on
screen, which are going to help you as
well with improving your performance in
games.